<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 11: Lady Riversreade</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-11" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<span epub:type="z3998:roman">XI</span>
				<span epub:type="subtitle">Lady Riversreade</span>
			</h2>
			<p>As Hetherwick was breakfasting next morning, Mapperley, outwardly commonplace and phlegmatic as ever, walked into his room.</p>
			<p>“Brief outline first, Mapperley,” commanded Hetherwick, instinctively scenting news. “Details later. Well?”</p>
			<p>“Spotted him at once at Victoria,” said Mapperley. “Followed him down there. He was at Riversreade an hour. Then went back to Dorking⁠—had lunch at ‘Red Lion.’ He stopped there till four o’clock, lunching and idling. Went back to town by the 4:29, arriving 6:50. I followed him then to the Café de Paris. He dined there and hung about till past ten. And then he went to Vivian’s Night Club.”</p>
			<p>Hetherwick pricked up his ears at that. Vivian’s Night Club!⁠—here, at any rate, seemed to be a link in the chain of which Matherfield believed himself to hold at least one end. The five-pound note found on Granett had been traced to Vivian’s Night Club: now Mapperley had tracked Lady Riversreade’s mysterious visitor to the same resort.</p>
			<p>“To Vivian’s Night Club, eh, Mapperley?” he said. “Let’s see?⁠—where is that?”</p>
			<p>“Entrance is in Candlestick Passage, off <abbr>St.</abbr> Martin’s Lane,” replied Mapperley with promptitude. “Club’s on first floor⁠—jolly fine suite of rooms, too!”</p>
			<p>“You’ve been in it?” suggested Hetherwick.</p>
			<p>“Twice! Not last night, though. You didn’t give me any further orders than to see where he went finally, after returning to town. So, when I’d run him to earth at Vivian’s, I went home. I argued that if he was wanted further, Vivian’s would find him.”</p>
			<p>“All right, Mapperley. But before that? You followed him to Riversreade Court?”</p>
			<p>Mapperley grinned widely.</p>
			<p>“No!⁠—I did better than that. I was there before him⁠—much better that, than following. I spotted him quick enough at Victoria, and made sure he got into the 10:10. Then I got in. As soon as we got to Dorking, I jumped out, got outside the station and chartered a taxi and drove off to Riversreade Court. I made the driver hide his cab up the road: I laid low in the plantation opposite the entrance gates. Presently my lord came along and drove up to the house. He was there the best part of an hour; then he drove off again towards Dorking. I followed at a good distance: kept him in sight, all the same. He got out of his conveyance in the High Street: so did I. He went into the Red Lion: so did I. He had lunch there: so had I. After that he lounged about in the smoking-room: I kept an eye on him.”</p>
			<p>“I suppose he didn’t meet anybody?”</p>
			<p>“Nobody!”</p>
			<p>“Well, and at the Café de Paris? Did he meet anybody there?”</p>
			<p>“He exchanged a nod and a word here and there with men⁠—and women⁠—that came in and went out. But as to any arranged meeting, I should say not. I should say, too, that he was well known at the Café de Paris.”</p>
			<p>“Did he seem to be a man of means? You know what I mean?”</p>
			<p>“He did himself very well at lunch and dinner, anyway,” said Mapperley, with another grin. “Bottle of claret at Dorking, and a pint of champagne at the Café de Paris⁠—big cigars, too. That sort of man, you know.”</p>
			<p>Hetherwick considered matters a moment.</p>
			<p>“How do you get in to this Vivian’s Night Club?” he asked suddenly.</p>
			<p>“Pay!” answered Mapperley laconically. “At the door. Some nonsense about being proposed, but that’s all bosh! Two of you go⁠—say Brown and Smith. Brown proposes Smith and Smith proposes Brown. All rot! Anybody can get in⁠—with money.”</p>
			<p>“And what goes on there?”</p>
			<p>“Dancing! Drinking! Devilry! Quite respectable, though,” replied Mapperley. “Been no prosecutions, anyway⁠—so far.”</p>
			<p>“What time does it open?”</p>
			<p>“Nine o’clock,” answered Mapperley, with a suggestive grin. “In the old days it didn’t open till after the theatres. But now⁠—earlier.”</p>
			<p>“Really not a nightclub at all⁠—in the old acceptation of the term,” suggested Hetherwick. “Evening, really?”</p>
			<p>“That’s about it,” agreed Mapperley. “Anyhow, it’s Vivian’s.”</p>
			<p>For the second time in the course of his investigations, Hetherwick’s thoughts turned to Boxley. Boxley’s love of intimate acquaintance with all sides of London life had doubtless led him to look in at Vivian’s: he would ask Boxley for some further information. And he looked up Boxley at the club.</p>
			<p>Boxley knew Vivian’s well enough⁠—innocent and innocuous now, said Boxley, what with all these new regulations and so on: degenerated, indeed⁠—or improved, just whichever way you regarded it⁠—into a supper club and that sort of thing. Dancing?⁠—oh yes, there was dancing, and so on⁠—but things had altered⁠—altered.</p>
			<p>“Well, I don’t want to dance there, nor to go there at all, for that matter, unless I’m obliged to,” said Hetherwick. “What I want to know is something about a man who, I believe, frequents the place⁠—a somewhat notable man.”</p>
			<p>“Describe him!” commanded Boxley.</p>
			<p>Hetherwick retailed Rhona’s description of Baseverie: Boxley nodded.</p>
			<p>“I know that man⁠—by sight,” he said. “Seen him there. I believe he’s something to do with the proprietorship: that place is owned by a small syndicate. But I don’t know his name. I’ve seen him outside too⁠—round about Leicester Square and its purlieus.”</p>
			<p>Hetherwick went from Boxley to Matherfield and told him the result of Mapperley’s work.</p>
			<p>“I know Vivian’s, of course,” said Matherfield. “Been in there two or three times lately in relation to this five-pound note. Don’t remember seeing this man, though. But in view of what your clerk says, I’d like to see him. Come with me. We’ll go tonight.”</p>
			<p>“Make it Monday,” suggested Hetherwick. “Tomorrow, Sunday, I shall be meeting Miss Hannaford again, and before we go to Vivian’s I’d like to know if she has anything to tell about the last visit of Baseverie to Riversreade Court⁠—the visit that Mapperley watched yesterday. She may have.”</p>
			<p>“Monday night then,” agreed Matherfield. “I don’t know what we can expect, but I’d certainly like to know who this man is and why he goes to Lady Riversreade.”</p>
			<p>“No good, you may be sure!” said Hetherwick. “But we’ll ferret it out⁠—somehow.”</p>
			<p>“Odd, that things seem to be centring round Vivian’s!” mused Matherfield. “The fiver⁠—and now this. Well⁠—Monday evening then?⁠—perhaps Miss Hannaford can supply a bit of extra news tomorrow.”</p>
			<p>Hetherwick, meeting Rhona at Victoria next day, found his arm grasped in Rhona’s right hand and himself twisted round.</p>
			<p>“If you want to see Lady Riversreade in the flesh, there she is!” whispered Rhona. “Came up by the same train⁠—there, going towards the bookstall; a tall man with her!”</p>
			<p>At that moment Lady Riversreade turned to speak to a porter who was carrying some light luggage for her, and Hetherwick had a full and good view of her face and figure. A fine, handsome, capable-looking woman, he said to himself, and one that once seen would not easily be forgotten.</p>
			<p>“Who’s the man?” he asked, looking from Lady Riversreade to her companion, a tall, bronzed man of military appearance, and apparently of about her own age.</p>
			<p>“Major Penteney,” replied Rhona promptly. “He’s a friend of hers, who takes a tremendous interest in the Home⁠—in fact, he acts as a sort of representative of it here in town. He’s often down at the Court⁠—I believe he’s in love with her.”</p>
			<p>“Well-matched couple,” observed Hetherwick, as the two people under notice moved away towards the exit. “And what’s Lady Riversreade come up for?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, I don’t know that,” replied Rhona. “She never tells me anything about her private doings. I heard her say that she was going to Town this morning and shouldn’t be back until Tuesday, but that’s all I know.”</p>
			<p>“That man, Baseverie, came again on Friday?” suggested Hetherwick. “But I know he did⁠—Mapperley watched him. Anything happen?”</p>
			<p>“Nothing⁠—except that Lady Riversreade told me that if <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Baseverie called he was to be brought in to her at once,” answered Rhona. “He came at the same time as before, and was with her an hour.”</p>
			<p>“Any signs on her part of being further upset?” asked Hetherwick.</p>
			<p>“No⁠—on the contrary she seemed quite cool and collected after he’d gone,” said Rhona. “Of course she made no reference to his visit.”</p>
			<p>“Has she never mentioned him to you?”</p>
			<p>“Never! In spite of the fact that his professed object was to see the Home and the patients, he’s seen neither.”</p>
			<p>“Which shows that that was all a mere excuse to get speech with her!” muttered Hetherwick. “Well⁠—we’re going to find out who this <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Baseverie is! Matherfield and I intend to get in touch with him tomorrow night.”</p>
			<p>But when the next night came Hetherwick’s plans about the visit to Vivian’s were frustrated by an unexpected happening, and neither he nor Matherfield as much as crossed the threshold of the nightclub in Candlestick Passage. They went there at ten o’clock: that, said Matherfield, was a likely hour⁠—between then and eleven-thirty the place would be full of its habitual frequenters: the notion was to mingle unobtrusively with whatever crowd chanced to be there and to keep eyes and ears open for whatever happened to transpire.</p>
			<p>Candlestick Passage, unfamiliar to Hetherwick until that evening, proved to be one of the many narrow alleys which open out of <abbr>St.</abbr> Martin’s Lane in the neighbourhood of the theatres. It wore a very commonplace, not to say shabby complexion, and there was nothing in its atmosphere to suggest adventure or romance. Not was there anything alluring about the entrance to Vivian’s, which was merely a wide, double doorway, ornamented by two evergreen shrubs set in tubs and revealing swing-doors within, and a carpeted staircase beyond. Hetherwick and Matherfield, however, never reached swing-doors or staircase: as they approached the outer entrance a tall woman emerged, and without so much as a look right or left turned down the passage towards the street. She paid no attention to the two men as she walked quickly past them⁠—but Hetherwick softly seized his companion’s arm.</p>
			<p>“Lady Riversreade, by all that’s wonderful!” he exclaimed under his breath. “That woman!”</p>
			<p>Matherfield turned sharply, gazing after the retreating figure.</p>
			<p>“That,” he said incredulously, “coming out of here? Certain?”</p>
			<p>“Dead sure!” affirmed Hetherwick. “I knew her at once⁠—I’d had a particularly good look at her, yesterday. That’s she!”</p>
			<p>“What’s she doing at Vivian’s?” muttered Matherfield. “Queer, that!”</p>
			<p>“But she’s going away from it,” said Hetherwick. “Come on!⁠—let’s see where she goes. We can easily come back here. But why not follow her first?”</p>
			<p>“Good!” agreed Matherfield. “Come on then! easily keep her in sight.”</p>
			<p>Lady Riversreade at that moment was turning out of the passage, to her left hand. When the two men emerged from it, she was already several yards ahead, going towards <abbr>St.</abbr> Martin’s Church. Her tall figure made her good to follow, but Matherfield kept Hetherwick back; no use, he said, in pressing too closely on your quarry.</p>
			<p>“Tall as she is and tall as we are,” he whispered, as they threaded in out of the crowds on the pavement, “we can spot her at twenty yards. Cautiously, now⁠—she’s making for the cab rank!”</p>
			<p>They watched Lady Riversreade charter and enter a taxicab: in another minute it moved away. But it had scarcely moved when Matherfield was at the door of the next cab on the rank.</p>
			<p>“You saw that cab go off with a tall woman in it?” he said to the driver. “There!⁠—just rounding the corner, know its driver? Right!⁠—follow it carefully. Note where it stops, and if the woman gets out. Drive slowly past wherever that is, and then pull up a bit farther on. Be sharp, now⁠—this is—” he bent towards the man and whispered a word or two: a second later he and Hetherwick were in the cab and across the top side of Trafalgar Square.</p>
			<p>“This is getting a bit thick, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Hetherwick,” remarked Matherfield. “Your clerk tracks his man to Vivian’s on Friday night, we find Lady Riversreade coming out of Vivian’s on Monday night. Now I shouldn’t think Lady Riversreade, whom we hear of chiefly as a humanitarian, a likely sort of lady to visit Vivian’s!”</p>
			<p>“She came out of Vivian’s, anyway!” replied Hetherwick.</p>
			<p>“Then, of course, she’d been in!” said Matherfield. “But why? I should say⁠—to have a meeting with Baseverie, or with somebody representing him, or having something to do with the business that took him to Riversreade Court. What business is it? Has it anything to do with our business? However, there’s Lady Riversreade in that cab in front, and we’ll just follow her to find out where she goes⁠—no doubt she’s bound for some swell West End hotel. And that knowledge will be useful, for I may want to see her in the morning⁠—to ask a question or two.”</p>
			<p>“Somewhat early for that, isn’t it?” suggested Hetherwick. “Do we know enough?”</p>
			<p>“Depends on what you call enough,” replied Matherfield dryly. “What I know is this: that man Granett was poisoned. He had on him a brand new five-pound note. That note I’ve traced as far as Vivian’s, where it was certainly paid to some customer in change on the very day before Granett and Hannaford’s deaths: Vivian’s is accordingly a place of interest. Now I hear of a mysterious man visiting Lady Riversreade⁠—the man is tracked to Vivian’s⁠—I myself see Lady Riversreade emerging from Vivian’s. I think I must ask Lady Riversreade what she knows about Vivian’s and a certain <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Baseverie, and, incidentally, if she ever heard of a place called Sellithwaite and a police-superintendent named Hannaford? Eh! But we’re leaving the region of the fashionable hotels.”</p>
			<p>Hetherwick looked out of the window, what he saw seemed unfamiliar.</p>
			<p>“We’re going up Edgware Road,” said Matherfield. He leaned out of the cab and gave some further instructions to the driver. “I don’t want to arouse any suspicion there in front,” he remarked, dropping into his seat again. “The probability is that she’s going to some private house, and I don’t want her to get any idea that she’s followed. Ah!⁠—now we turn into Harrow Road.”</p>
			<p>The cab went away by Paddington Green, turned sharply at the Town Hall, and made up <abbr>St.</abbr> Mary’s Terrace. Presently it slowed down; proceeded still more slowly; passed the other cab which had come to a standstill in front of a block of high buildings; a few yards farther on it stopped altogether. The driver got down from his seat and came to the door.</p>
			<p>“That tall lady!” he said confidentially. “Her as got into the other cab. She’s gone into <abbr>St.</abbr> Mary’s Mansions⁠—just below.”</p>
			<p>“Flats, aren’t they?” asked Matherfield.</p>
			<p>“That’s it, sir,” answered the driver. He looked down the street. “Cab’s going off again, sir. Porter came out and paid.”</p>
			<p>“That looks as if she was going to stay here awhile,” remarked Matherfield in an undertone. “Well, we’ll get out, too, and take a look round.” He paid and dismissed the driver, and crossing over to the opposite side of the roadway, pointed out to Hetherwick the block of flats into which Lady Riversreade had disappeared. “Big place,” he muttered. “Regular rabbit-warren. However, no other entrance than this⁠—the old burial ground’s at the back, no way out there, I do know that! So she can’t very well vanish that way.”</p>
			<p>“You’re going to wait, then?” asked Hetherwick.</p>
			<p>“I don’t believe in starting out on any game unless I see it through,” replied Matherfield. “Yes, I think we’ll wait. But there’s no necessity to hang around in the open street. I know this district⁠—used to be at the police station round the corner. You see all these houses on this side, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Hetherwick? They’re all lodging-houses, and I know most of their keepers. Wait here a minute, and I’ll soon get a room that we can watch from, without being seen ourselves.”</p>
			<p>He left Hetherwick standing under the shadow of a neighbouring high wall, and went a little way down the street. Hetherwick heard him open the gate of one of the little gardens and knock at a door. There some little delay. Hetherwick passed the time in staring at the long rows of lighted windows in the flats opposite, wondering to which of them Lady Riversreade had gone and what she was doing there at all. It was clear to him that this was some adventure connected with the mysterious Baseverie and with Vivian’s Night Club⁠—but how, and of what nature?</p>
			<p>Matherfield came back presently, cheerful and reassuring.</p>
			<p>“Come along, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Hetherwick!” he whispered. “There’s a man here⁠—lodging-house keeper⁠—who knows me. We can have his front parlour window to watch from. Far better that than patrolling the street. We shall be comfortable there.”</p>
			<p>“You’re intent on watching, then?” said Hetherwick as they moved off.</p>
			<p>“I’m not coming all that way for nothing,” replied Matherfield. “I’m going to follow her up till she settles for the night. That won’t be here; she’ll be off to some hotel or other before long.”</p>
			<p>But Matherfield’s prediction proved to be faulty. Time dragged slowly by in the stuffy and shabby little room in which he and Hetherwick took up a position and from the window of which Matherfield kept a constant watch on the entrance of the flats, exactly opposite. Midnight came and went, but nothing happened. And at half-past twelve Hetherwick suggested that the game wasn’t worth the candle, and that he should prefer to depart.</p>
			<p>“You do as you like, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Hetherwick,” said Matherfield, stifling a suspicious yawn. “I’m sick enough of it, too. But here I stop till she comes out⁠—whether it’s this side of breakfast or the other side!”</p>
			<p>“And what then?” asked Hetherwick, half derisively.</p>
			<p>“Then we’ll see⁠—or I’ll see, if you’re going⁠—where she goes next! Don’t believe in half measures!” retorted Matherfield.</p>
			<p>“Oh, I’ll see it out!” said Hetherwick. “After all, it’ll be daylight soon.”</p>
			<p>Daylight came over the housetops at four o’clock. They had seen nothing up to then. But at twenty minutes to five Matherfield tugged his companion’s arm. Lady Riversreade, in a big ulster travelling-coat and carrying a small suitcase, was emerging alone from the opposite door.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
