<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XII: Alias Madame Listorelle</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-12" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XII</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title"><i>Alias</i> Madame Listorelle</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p>The woman thus observed marched swiftly away down the deserted street in the direction of the Town Hall at the corner, and Matherfield, after one more searching look at her, dropped the slat of the Venetian blind through which he had been peeping, and turned on his companion. At the same instant he reached a hand for his overcoat and hat.</p>
			<p>“Now, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Hetherwick,” he said sharply, “this has got to be a one-man job! There’ll be nothing extraordinary in one man going along the streets to catch an early morning train, but it would look a bit suspicious if two men went together on the same errand and the same track! I’m off after her! I’ll run her down! I’m used to that sort of thing. You go to your chambers and get some sleep. I’ll look in later and tell you what news I have. Sharp’s the word, now!”</p>
			<p>He was out of the room and the house within the next few seconds, and Hetherwick, half vexed with himself for having lingered there on a job which Matherfield thus unceremoniously took into his own hands, prepared to follow. Presently he went out into the shabby hall; the man of the house was just coming downstairs, stifling a big yawn. He smiled knowingly when he saw Hetherwick.</p>
			<p>“Matherfield gone, sir?” he inquired. “I heard the door close.”</p>
			<p>“He’s gone,” assented Hetherwick. “The person he wanted appeared suddenly, and he’s gone in pursuit.”</p>
			<p>The man, a smug-faced, easygoing sort of person, smiled again.</p>
			<p>“Rum doings these police have!” he remarked. “Queer job, watching all night through a window. I was just coming down to make you a cup of coffee,” he continued. “I’ll get you one in a few minutes, if you like. Or tea now? Perhaps you’d prefer tea?”</p>
			<p>“It’s very good of you,” said Hetherwick. “But to tell you the truth I’d rather get home and to bed. Many thanks, all the same.”</p>
			<p>Then, out of sheer good nature, he slipped a treasury note into the man’s hand, and, bidding him good morning, went away. He, too, walked down the street in the direction taken by Lady Riversreade and her pursuer. But when he came to the bottom and emerged into Harrow Road he saw nothing of them, either to left or right. The road, however, was not deserted; there were already workmen going to early morning tasks, and close by the corner of the Town Hall a roadman was busy with his broom. Hetherwick went up to him.</p>
			<p>“Did you see a lady, and then a gentleman, come down here, from <abbr>St.</abbr> Mary’s Terrace, just now?” he asked. “Tall people, both of them.”</p>
			<p>The man rested on his broom, half turned, and pointed towards Paddington Bridge.</p>
			<p>“I see ’em, guv’nor,” he answered. “Tall lady, carrying a little portmantle. Gone along over the bridge yonder. Paddington station way. And, after her, Matherfield.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, you know him, do you?” exclaimed Hetherwick, in surprise.</p>
			<p>The man jerked a thumb in the direction of the adjacent police station.</p>
			<p>“Used to be a sergeant here, did Matherfield,” he replied. “I knows him, right enough! Once run me in⁠—me an’ a mate o’ mine⁠—for bein’ a bit festive like. Five bob and costs that was. But I don’t bear him no grudge, not me! Thank ’ee, guv’nor.”</p>
			<p>Hetherwick left another tip behind him and walked slowly off towards Edgware Road. The Tube trains were just beginning to run, and he caught a southbound one and went down to Charing Cross and thence to the Temple. And at six o’clock he tumbled into bed, and slept soundly until, four hours later, he heard Mapperley moving about in the adjoining room.</p>
			<p>Mapperley, whose job at Hetherwick’s was a good deal of a sinecure, was leisurely reading the news when his master entered. He laid the paper aside, and gave Hetherwick a knowing glance.</p>
			<p>“Got some more information last night,” he said. “About that chap I tracked the other day.”</p>
			<p>“How did you get it?” asked Hetherwick.</p>
			<p>“Put in a bit of time at Vivian’s,” answered Mapperley. “There’s a fellow there that I know. Clerk to the secretary chap, named Flowers. That man Baseverie has a share in the place⁠—sort of director, I think.”</p>
			<p>“What time were you at Vivian’s?” inquired Hetherwick. “Late or early?”</p>
			<p>“Early⁠—for them,” answered Mapperley.</p>
			<p>“Did you see the man there?”</p>
			<p>“I did. He was there all the time I was. In and about all the time. But at first he was in what seemed to be serious conversation with a tall, handsome woman. They sat talking in an alcove in the lounge there some time. Then she went off⁠—alone.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, you saw that, did you?” said Hetherwick. “Well, I may as well tell you, since you know what you do, that the woman was Lady Riversreade!”</p>
			<p>“Oh, I guessed that!” remarked Mapperley. “I figured in that at once. But that wasn’t all. I found out more. That dead man, Hannaford⁠—from what I heard from Flowers⁠—I’ve no doubt whatever that Hannaford was at Vivian’s once, if not twice, during the two or three nights before his death. Anyway, Flowers recognised my description of him⁠—which I’d got, of course, from you and the papers.”</p>
			<p>“Hannaford. There, eh?” exclaimed Hetherwick. “Alone?”</p>
			<p>“No⁠—came in with this Baseverie. They don’t know him as <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Baseverie there, though. Plain Mister. I’m quite sure it was Hannaford who was with him.”</p>
			<p>“Did you get the exact dates⁠—and times?” asked Hetherwick.</p>
			<p>“I didn’t. Flowers couldn’t say that. But he remembered such a man.”</p>
			<p>“Well, that’s something,” said Hetherwick. He turned into another room and sat down to his breakfast, thinking. “Mapperley, come here!” he called presently. “Look here,” he went on as the clerk came in. “Since you know this Vivian place, go there again tonight, and try to find out if that friend of yours knows anything of a tall man who corresponds to the description of the man whom Hannaford was seen to meet at Victoria. You read Ledbitter’s account of that, given at the inquest?”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” replied Mapperley. “But of what value is it? None⁠—for practical purposes! He couldn’t even tell the shape of the man’s nose, nor the colour of his eyes! All he could tell was that he saw a man muffled in such a fashion that he saw next to nothing of his face, and that he was tall and smartly dressed. There are a few tens of thousands⁠—scores, perhaps⁠—of tall, smartly-dressed men in London!”</p>
			<p>“Never mind⁠—inquire,” said Hetherwick, “and particularly if such a man has ever been seen in Baseverie’s company there.”</p>
			<p>He finished his breakfast, and then, instead of going down to the Central Criminal Court, after his usual habit, he hung about in his chambers, expecting Matherfield. But Matherfield did not come, and at noon Hetherwick, impelled by a new idea, left a message for him in case he called, and went out. In pursuance of the idea, he journeyed once more to the regions of Paddington and knocked at the door of the house wherein he and Matherfield had kept watch on the flats opposite.</p>
			<p>The lodging-house keeper opened the door himself and grinned on seeing Hetherwick. Hetherwick stepped inside and nodded at the door of the room which he had left only a few hours before.</p>
			<p>“I want a word or two with you,” he said. “In private.”</p>
			<p>“Nobody in here, sir,” replied the man. “Come in.”</p>
			<p>He closed the door on himself and his visitor, and offered Hetherwick a chair.</p>
			<p>“I expected you’d be back during the day,” he said, with a sly smile. “Either you or Matherfield, or both!”</p>
			<p>“You haven’t seen him again?” asked Hetherwick.</p>
			<p>“No; he’s not been here,” replied the man.</p>
			<p>“Well, I wanted to ask you a question,” continued Hetherwick. “Perhaps two or three. To begin with, have you lived here long?”</p>
			<p>“Been here since before these flats were built⁠—and that’s a good many years ago; I can’t say exactly how many,” said the other, glancing at the big block opposite his window. “Twenty-two or three, anyway.”</p>
			<p>“Then I dare say you know most of the people hereabouts?” suggested Hetherwick. “By sight, at any rate.”</p>
			<p>The lodging-house keeper smiled and shook his head.</p>
			<p>“That would be a tall order, mister!” he answered. “There’s a few thousand of people packed into this bit of London. Of course, I do know a good many, close at hand. But if you’re a Londoner you’ll know that Londoners keep themselves to themselves. May seem queer, but it’s a fact that I don’t know the names of my next-door neighbours on either side⁠—though to be sure they’ve only been here a few years in either case.”</p>
			<p>“What I was suggesting,” said Hetherwick, “was that you probably knew by sight many of the people who live in the flats opposite your house.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, I know some of ’em by sight,” assented the man. “They’re a mixed lot over in those flats! A few old gentlemen⁠—retired⁠—two or three old ladies⁠—and a fair lot of actresses⁠—very popular with the stage is those flats. But, of course, it is only by sight⁠—I don’t know any of ’em by name. Just see them going in and coming out, you know.”</p>
			<p>“Do you happen to know by sight a tall, handsome woman who has a flat there?” asked Hetherwick. “A woman who’s likely to be very well dressed?”</p>
			<p>The lodging-house keeper, who was without his coat and had the sleeves of his shirt rolled up, scratched his elbows and looked thoughtful.</p>
			<p>“I think I do know the lady you mean,” he said at last. “Goes out with one o’ those pesky little poms⁠—a black ’un⁠—on a lead? That her?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know anything about a dog,” replied Hetherwick. “The woman I mean is, as I said, tall, handsome, distinguished-looking, fair hair and a fresh complexion, and about forty or so.”</p>
			<p>“I dare say that’s the one I’m thinking of,” said the man. “I have seen such a lady now and then⁠—not of late, though.” Then he gave Hetherwick a shrewd, inquiring glance. “You and Matherfield after her?” he asked.</p>
			<p>“Not exactly that,” answered Hetherwick. “What I want to find out⁠—now⁠—is her name. The name she’s known by here, anyway.”</p>
			<p>“I can soon settle that for you,” said the lodging-house keeper with alacrity. “I know the caretaker of those flats well enough⁠—often have a talk with him. He’ll tell me anything⁠—between ourselves. Now then, let’s get it right⁠—a tall, handsome lady, about forty, fair hair, fresh complexion, well dressed. That it, mister?”</p>
			<p>“You’ve got it,” said Hetherwick.</p>
			<p>“Then you wait here a bit, and I’ll slip across,” said the man. “All on the strict between ourselves, you know. As I said, the caretaker and me’s pals.”</p>
			<p>He left the room, and a moment later Hetherwick saw him cross the road and descend into the basement of the flats. Within a quarter of an hour he was back, and evidently primed with news.</p>
			<p>“Soon settled that for you, mister!” he announced triumphantly. “He knew who you meant! The lady’s name is Madame Listorelle. Here, I got him to write it down on a bit o’ paper, not being used to foreign names. He thinks she’s something to do with the stage. She’s the tenant of flat twenty-six. But he says that of late she’s seldom there⁠—comes for a night or two, then away, maybe for months at a time. He saw her here yesterday, though; she hadn’t been there, he says, for a good bit. But there, it don’t signify to him whether she’s there or away⁠—always punctual with her money, and that’s the main thing, ain’t it?”</p>
			<p>Hetherwick added to his largess of the early morning, and went away. He was now convinced that Lady Riversreade, for some purpose of her own, kept up a flat in Paddington, visited it occasionally, and was known there as Madame Listorelle. How much was there in that, and what bearing had it on the problem he was endeavouring to solve?</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
