<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 8: Fligwood’s Rents</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-8" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<span epub:type="z3998:roman">VIII</span>
				<span epub:type="subtitle">Fligwood’s Rents</span>
			</h2>
			<p>Hetherwick went to the hotel telephone again before he had finished his lunch, and as a result Matherfield was on the platform at Victoria when the two-twenty-four ran in. He showed no surprise at seeing Hetherwick and Rhona together; his manifest concern was to get Hetherwick to himself and away from the station. And Hetherwick, seeing this, said good-bye to Rhona with a whispered word that he would look in at Malter’s Hotel before evening; a few minutes later he and Matherfield were in a taxi-cab together, hastening along Buckingham Palace Road.</p>
			<p>“Well?” inquired Hetherwick. “This man?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t think there’s any doubt about his being the man you saw with Hannaford,” replied Matherfield. “He answers to your description, anyway. But I’ll tell you how we came across his track. Last night a man named Appleyard came to me⁠—he’s a chap who has a chemist’s shop in Horseferry Road, Westminster⁠—a middle-aged, quiet sort of man, who prefaced his remarks by telling us that he very rarely had time to read newspapers or he’d have been round to see us before. But yesterday he happened to pick up a copy of one of last Sunday’s papers, and he read an account of the Hannaford affair. Then he remembered something that seemed to him to have a possible connection with it. Some little time ago he advertised for an assistant⁠—a qualified assistant. He’d two or three applications which weren’t exactly satisfactory. Then, one evening⁠—he couldn’t give any exact date, but from various things he told us I reckoned up that it must have been on the very evening on which Hannaford met his death⁠—a man came and made a personal application. Appleyard described him⁠—medium-sized, a spare man, sallow-complexioned, thin face and beard, large dark eyes, very intelligent, superior manner, poorly dressed, and evidently in low water⁠⸺”</p>
			<p>“That’s the man, I’ll be bound!” exclaimed Hetherwick. “Did he give this chemist his name?”</p>
			<p>“He did⁠—name and address,” answered Matherfield. “He said his name was James Granett, and his address Number 8, Fligwood’s Rents, Gray’s Inn Road⁠—Holborn end. He told Appleyard that he was a qualified chemist, and produced his proofs and some references. He also said that though he’d never had a business of his own he’d been employed, as, indeed, the references showed, by some good provincial firms at one time or another. Lately he’d been in the employ of a firm of manufacturing chemists in East Ham⁠—for some reason or other their trade had fallen off, and they’d had to reduce their staff, and he’d been thrown out of work, and had had the further bad luck to be seriously ill. This, he said, had exhausted his small means, and he was very anxious to get another job⁠—so anxious that he appeared to come to Appleyard on very low terms. Appleyard told him he’d inquire into the references and write to him in a day or two. He did inquire, found the references quite satisfactory, and wrote to Granett engaging him. But Granett never turned up, and Appleyard heard no more of him until he read this Sunday paper. Then he felt sure Granett was the man, and came to me.”</p>
			<p>“I shouldn’t think there’s any doubt in the case,” remarked Hetherwick. “But before we go any further, a question. Did Appleyard say what time it was when this man came to him that evening?”</p>
			<p>“He did. It was just as he was closing his shop⁠—nine o’clock. Granett stopped talking with him about half an hour. Indeed, Appleyard told me more. After they’d finished their talk, Appleyard, who doesn’t live at the shop, locked it up, and he then invited Granett to step across the street with him and have a drink before going home. They had a drink together in a neighbouring saloon bar, and chatted a bit there; it would be nearly ten o’clock, according to Appleyard, when Granett left him. And he remembered that Granett, on leaving him, went round the corner into Victoria Street, on his way, no doubt, to the Underground.”</p>
			<p>“And in Victoria Street, equally without doubt, he met Hannaford,” muttered Hetherwick. “Well, and the rest of it?”</p>
			<p>“Well, of course, as soon as I learnt all this, I determined to go myself to Fligwood’s Rents,” replied Matherfield. “I went, first thing this morning. Fligwood’s Rents is a slum street⁠—only a man who is very low down in the world would ever dream of renting a room there. It’s a sort of alley or court on the right-hand side of Gray’s Inn Road, going up⁠—some half-dozen squalid houses on each side, let off in tenements. Number 8 was a particularly squalid house!⁠—slatternly women and squalling brats about the door and general dirt and shabbiness all round. None of the women about the place knew the name of Granett, but after I’d described the man I wanted they argued that it must be the gentleman on the top back; they added the further information that they hadn’t seen him for some days. I went up a filthy stair to the room they indicated; the door was locked and I couldn’t get any response to my repeated knockings. So then I set out to discover the landlord, and eventually unearthed a beery individual in a neighbouring low-class tavern. I got out of him that he had a lodger named Granett, who paid him six shillings a week for this top back room, and he suddenly remembered that Granett hadn’t paid his last week’s rent. That made more impression on him than anything I said, and he went with me to the house. And to cut things short, we forced the door, and found the man dead in his bed!”</p>
			<p>“Dead!” exclaimed Hetherwick. “Dead⁠—then?”</p>
			<p>“Dead then⁠—yes, and he’d been dead several days, according to the doctors,” replied Matherfield grimly. “Dead enough! It was a poor room, but clean⁠—you could see from various little things that the man had been used to a better condition. But as regards himself⁠—he’d evidently gone to bed in the usual way. His clothes were all carefully folded and arranged, and by the side of the bed there was a chair on which was a half-burnt candle and an evening newspaper.”</p>
			<p>“That would fix the date,” suggested Hetherwick.</p>
			<p>“Of course, it did⁠—and it was the same date as that on which Hannaford died,” answered Matherfield. “I’ve made a careful note of that circumstance! Everything looked as if the man had gone to bed in just his ordinary way, read the paper a bit, blown out his light, dropped off to sleep, and died in his sleep.”</p>
			<p>“Yes!⁠—and from what cause, I wonder?” exclaimed Hetherwick.</p>
			<p>“Precisely the same idea occurred to me, knowing what I did about Hannaford,” said Matherfield. “However, the doctors will tell us more about that. But to wind up⁠—I had a man of mine with me, and I left him in charge while I got further help, and sent for Appleyard. Appleyard identified the dead man at once as the man who had been to see him. Indeed, on opening the door, we found Appleyard’s letter, engaging him, lying with one or two others, just inside. So that’s about all, except that I now want to know if you can positively identify him as the man you saw with Hannaford, and that I also want to open a locked box that we found in the room, which may contain something that will give us further information. Altogether, it’s a step forward.”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” admitted Hetherwick. “It’s something. But there’s spade-work to be done yet, Matherfield. I don’t think there’s any doubt, now, that Granett encountered Hannaford after he left Appleyard⁠—and that indicates that Granett and Hannaford were old acquaintances. But, supposing they met at, or soon after, ten o’clock⁠—where did they go, where did they spend their time between that and the time they entered my compartment at <abbr>St.</abbr> James’s Park?”</p>
			<p>“That would be⁠—what?” asked Matherfield.</p>
			<p>“It was well after midnight⁠—mine was the last train going east, anyway,” said Hetherwick. “I only just caught it at Sloane Square. But we can ascertain the exact time, to a minute. Still, those two, meeting accidentally, as I conclude they did, must have been together two or three hours. Where?⁠—at that time of night. Surely there must be some way of finding that out! Two men, each rather noticeable⁠—somebody must have seen them together, somewhere! It seems impossible that they shouldn’t have been seen.”</p>
			<p>“Aye, but in my experience, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Hetherwick, it’s the impossible that happens!” rejoined Matherfield. “In a bee-hive like this, where every man’s intent on his own business, ninety-nine men out of a hundred never observe anything unless it’s shoved right under their very eyes. Of course, if we could find out if and where Hannaford and Granett were together that night, and where Granett went to after he slipped away at Charing Cross, it would vastly simplify matters. But how are we going to find out? There’s been immense publicity given to this case in the papers, you know, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Hetherwick⁠—portraits of Hannaford, and details about the whole affair, and so on, and yet we’ve had surprisingly little help and less information. I’ll tell you what it is, sir⁠—what we want is that tall, muffled-up chap who met Hannaford at Victoria! Who is he, now?”</p>
			<p>“Who, indeed!” assented Hetherwick. “Vanished!⁠—without a trace.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, well!” said Matherfield cheerfully, “you never know when you might light on a trace. But here we are at this unsavoury Fligwood’s Rents.”</p>
			<p>The cab pulled up at the entrance to a dark, high-walled, stone-paved alley, which at that moment appeared to be full of women and children; so, too, did the windows on either side. The whole place was sombre and evil-smelling, and Hetherwick felt a sense of pity for the unfortunate man whose luck had been bad enough to bring him there.</p>
			<p>“A murder, a suicide, or a sudden death is as a breath of heaven to these folk!” said Matherfield as they made their way through the ragged and frowsy gathering. “It’s an event in uneventful lives. Here’s the place,” he added, as they came to a doorway whereat a policeman stood on guard. “And here are the stairs⁠—mind you don’t slip on ’em, for the wood’s broken and the banisters are smashed.”</p>
			<p>Hetherwick cautiously followed his guide to the top of the house. There at another door stood a second policeman, engaged when they caught sight of him in looking out through the dirt-obscured window of the landing. His bored countenance brightened when he saw Matherfield; stepping back he quietly opened the door at his side. And the two new-comers, silent in view of the task before them, tiptoed into the room beyond.</p>
			<p>It was, as Matherfield had remarked, a poor place, but it was clean and orderly, and its occupant had evidently tried to make it as habitable and comfortable as his means would allow. There were one or two good prints on the table; half a dozen books on an old chest of drawers; in a cracked vase on the mantelpiece there were a few flowers, wilted and dead. Hetherwick took in all this at a glance; then he turned to Matherfield, who silently drew aside a sheet from the head and shoulders of the rigid figure on the bed, and looked inquiringly at his companion. And Hetherwick gave the dead man’s face one careful inspection and nodded.</p>
			<p>“Yes!” he said. “That’s the man!”</p>
			<p>“Without doubt?” asked Matherfield.</p>
			<p>“No doubt at all,” affirmed Hetherwick. “That is the man who was with Hannaford in the train. I knew him instantly.”</p>
			<p>Matherfield replaced the sheet and turned to a small table which stood in the window. On it was a box, a square, old-fashioned thing, clamped at the corners.</p>
			<p>“This seems to be the only thing he had that’s what you may call private,” he observed. “It’s locked, but I’ve got a tool here that’ll open it. I want to know what’s in it⁠—there may be something that’ll give us a clue.”</p>
			<p>Hetherwick stood by while Matherfield forced open the lock with an instrument which he produced from his pocket, and began to examine the contents of the box. At first there seemed little that was likely to yield information. There was a complete suit of clothes and an outfit of decent linen; it seemed as if Granett had carefully kept these in view of better days. There were more books, all of a technical nature, relating to chemistry; there was a small case containing chemical apparatus, and another in which lay a pair of scales; in a third they found a microscope.</p>
			<p>“He wasn’t down to the very end of his resources, or he’d have pawned these things,” muttered Matherfield. “They all look good stuff, especially the microscope. But here’s more what I want⁠—letters!”</p>
			<p>He drew forth two bundles of letters, neatly arranged and tied up with tape. Unloosing the fastenings and rapidly spreading the envelopes out on the table, he suddenly put his finger on an address.</p>
			<p>“There you are, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Hetherwick,” he exclaimed. “That’s just what I expected to find out⁠—though I certainly didn’t think we should discover it so quickly This man has lived at Sellithwaite some time or other. Look there, at this address⁠—”<abbr>Mr.</abbr> James Granett, 7, Victoria Terrace, Sellithwaite, Yorkshire.” Of course!⁠—that’s how he came to know and be with Hannaford. They were old acquaintances. See, there are several letters.”</p>
			<p>Hetherwick took two or three of the envelopes in his hand and looked closely at them. He perceived at once what Matherfield had not noticed.</p>
			<p>“Just so!” he said. “But what’s of far more importance is the date. Look at this⁠—you see? That shows that Granett was living at Sellithwaite ten years ago⁠—it was of that time that Hannaford was talking to him in the train.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, we’re getting at something!” assented Matherfield. “Now we’ll put everything back, and I’ll take this box away and examine it thoroughly at leisure.” He replaced the various articles, twisted a cord round the box, knotted it, and turned to the dead man’s clothes, lying neatly folded on a chair close by. “I haven’t had a look at the pockets of those things yet,” he continued. “I’ll just take a glance⁠—you never know.”</p>
			<p>Hetherwick again watched in silence. There was little of interest revealed until Matherfield suddenly drew a folded bit of paper from one of the waistcoat pockets. Smoothing it out he uttered a sharp exclamation.</p>
			<p>“Good!” he said. “See this? A brand new five pound note! Now, I’ll lay anything he hadn’t had that on him long! Got it that night, doubtless. And⁠—from whom?”</p>
			<p>“I should say Hannaford gave it to him,” suggested Hetherwick.</p>
			<p>But Matherfield shook his head and put the note in his own pocket.</p>
			<p>“That’s a definite clue!” he said, with emphasis. “I can trace that!”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
